Big points

1.. Situation by person interaction

2.. Randomness as a perspective

3.. Person reactions to requests for help

Also consider (a) length and (b) whether or not an additional data set on my own emails is necessary.






Intro
- context: faculty are not happy

1) no abstract

make sure everything is appropriate. 
you wrote a journal article. 


2) first paragraph

ocbs only in response to requests or can they happen in absense. 

I'm setting it as the focus of OCBs. You need to set is as a limitation of my research. 

Generally, OCB people view this as a behavior in response to a request. I acknowledge that it is likely that ocbs happen outside of a request. the dominant perspective is X and I'm going to stick with it. 

3) fluff

need expansive. 2nd paragraph.
here are OCBs. here are onceptualized. here is how they are researched. 

4) 3rd paragraph for contributions

unsystematic vs systematic. Flesh that out. Confusing. 


5) table 1

Interpret table 1. Why do we need it?


6) re-state hypotheses

don't want them to appear mirror images of one another, with a null condition. they should reinforce one another. 


7) hypothesis 2

Good soldiers emerge because some folks get larger pools and so they have opportunities to respond to

as an artifact of the fact that the request pool.

"If they accumulate ...X and Y."


The idea of accumulation does not require the systematic school of thought. 

8) don't use the word compile

use the word accumulate





Post chat notes:

1) fluff, fluff, fluff. Background. etc.

2) hypotheses

3) accumulate rather than compile



Post Methods and discussion notes:

1) fluff dickey fuller introduction

In Econ, it is a requirement that you demonstrate that your time series is not a random walk before moving forward to make any substantive claims

Convey how widely it is used. People use it everywhere, across disciplines. It is a standard. It is a baseline to evaluate before moving forward with substantive ideas.

Other disciplines care a lot about this statistic.


2) fluff pilot discussion

Connect it back to my substantive point.



3) fluff first paragraph of simulation results

Conceptual paragraph about relative rank. What am I assessing? What am I conceptually looking at in my results? 


Stability of relative rank. Wheover is high initially remains high at later periods. Exceptional citizen at time 1 has a different level of citizenship at time 2, and at time 3, and 4. But across the entire time span their fluctuations in OCB remain above all others.

4) fluff figure conclusions from simulation

Remind the readers of hypotheses.

Have a summary paragraph. The results show that X, Y, and Z. Connect them back to the substantive ideas.




5) fluff the results

Add "it depends" paragraphs. E.g., if I change the "respond to influx" condition, then it becomes synonymous with condition 1. 



6) fluff the practical implications

Find another or 2 more grant examples.


7) how are you going to respond to Nick's point? But what I'm talking about isn't random?

Nick's point:
- your research is ignorable because it is random
- my data aren't random so I'm good


To counter this, add a "we don't check for randomness in our data" so we don't know. You can't tell me that we know X or Y isn't random because we don't check.

Put this after the "growing literature on chance processes and random walks."



# Defense overview

Short overview
Spend a lot of time talking about how you are responsive to their concerns