1) short ish

Imagine if I told you about my colleague who is encouraging and always provides assistance -- much more so than others that I work with. When we think of a person like that, all of us think that her behavior must be driven by her motives, her personality, her dispositions, something exceptional about her. 

Imagine if I told you about my colleague who is encouraging and always provides assistance -- much more so than others that I work with. What causes her to act that way? We naturally think of her motives, her personality, her dispositions, something exceptional about her. 

I want to show that, instead, a random process can account for it.
I want to show that her behavior could actually be driven by chance. She could be no more trustworthy, no more compassionate, no more caring, no more generous, no more charitable than others, yet if my process occurs, she will demonstrate exceptional behavior. 

I want to show that chance/randomness can actually create what appears to be exceptionally charitable or compassionate behavior. 

You could have two people that share the same motives, the same dispositions, they are the same person, but a chance process could account for her behavior.






2) really short


Let's say you and I work together. How many times do you have to help me for me to know that you are actually a helpful person and this exchange wasn't just chance, it wasn't a one-off?







3) Proposal

I'm going to speak very briefly just to refresh your memory. There's a pattern in the OCB literature that researchers are showing an interest in, and they refer to it either as "good soldiers" or "extra milers." What these mean is that an employee frequently or characteristically engages in higher levels of OCBs than his or her colleagues. Most of our research takes the perspective that such behavior is systematic and due to unique characteristics about the individual, be they within person or between person. There is something going on about individual A that makes him or her individually different from his or her peers. 

What I want to do is (1) draw attention to requests or opportunities or the situation and (2) suggest that employees could be identical in character, they could be exactly the same, AND, they could acquire opportunities by the same process. But if that process is random, what you would expect is for one to have vastly greater opportunity than others. So to the extent that opportunities at least somewhat lead to action then this OCB pattern could be due to a chance accumulation mechanism on help requests.

That's not a unique pattern that's an expected pattern.

Most people think randomness means two people will have the same number of objects over time. That's not the case. If objects acccumulate, the expected result is dominance.