
Imagine a close colleague that always agrees to volunteer for additional work when asked to do so. What causes her to act this way? Our intuition says that the cause must be something unique about her, a motive, personality trait, disposition, or her momentary enthusiasm. So it is with our research as well -- the literature on correlates of why someone responds with help has focused almost exclusively on individual characteristics, such as affect, motives, attributions, justice or leadership perceptions, personality, and exhaustion. This emphasis contradicts what we know about chance and random processes, namely that they can produce what looks like long-run, exceptional behavior when in fact there is nothing systematic happening at all. Because chance explanations have not been ruled out, statements about the necessity for organizations to monitor, evaluate, and influence individual characteristics to improve employee helping may be overblown. Moreover, a manager who reads this literature and then assumes that individual characteristics cause helping is more likely to falsely attribute good character to her employees when she witnesses helping, leading to performance evaluations and reward recommendations that are, perhaps, biased as she never ruled out chance. The purpose of this paper is to find evidence of randomness in the requests that employees receive asking them for assistance. If we identify chance, then researchers, managers, and consultants must account for it if they truly want to know whether something unique about the individual, rather than something random about the situation, led to exceptional, long-run helping. In the organizational literature, helping or providing assistance to colleagues is referred to as organizational citizenship. 

Organizational citizenship behaviors (OCBs), or prosocial acts such as assisting others, volunteering for additional work, or speaking highly of the company, are increasingly emphasized in the organizational sciences (Dalal & Carpenter, 2018). Leaders put OCBs on equal footing to task performance when asked about the merits of different behaviors within their teams (Podsakoff, MacKenzie, & Podsakoff, 2018), and researchers have gone so far as to describe OCBs as the key social aspect driving organizational success (Bateman & Crant, 1993). Researchers, as well as consultants, managers, and employees, are interested in knowing why people differ on this behavior, and in particular why someone might have sustained, superior levels of OCBs over time.

Employees that exhibit sustained, high-levels of OCBs are labeled "extra-milers" or "good citizens" in the literature (cites), and researchers have identified a number of predictors of this behavior -- many of which are individual characteristics. These include prosocial motivation and personality (grant, 2008; penner, midili, kegelmey), impression management motives (grant & Mayer, 2009), one's propensity to be concerned for others (Meglino & Korsgaard), job satisfaction, perceived fairness, and organizational commitment (Organ & ryan, 1995), perceptions of trust (handbook moorman), fit (handbook kristof brown), leader fairness (piccolo), and interaction quality with colleagues (Bolino, Hsiung, Harvey, & Lepine), how employees appraise goals (Welsh, Baer) and pressures to perform (Mitchell, Greenbaum, Vogel), their level of engagement (Wang, Law, Zhang, & Liang, 2019) and mindfullness (hafenbrack, cameron, spreitzer, zhang, noval), and perceptions of ostracism (Ferris, Fatimah, Yan, Liang). Indeed, Bolino 1999 and Bolino et al., 2012 state that there is a consensus that OCBs stem from dispositions, motivation, and fairness perceptions. 

Studies have also identified predictors of within-person OCB variance, but again many of these are individual characteristics. Antecedents include positive affect (dalal, lam, weiss, welch, hulin; glomb, bhave, miner, wall), job satisfaction (illies, scott, judge), social comparisons and beliefs in a just world (spence, ferris, brown, heller), core self evaluations and future orientation (wu, Parker), engagement (christian, eisenkraft, dapadia; barnes, ghumann, scott), and perceptions of justice or supervisor support (matta, sabey, scott, lin; schreurs, van emmerik, gunter, germeys). 

We offer an alternative, perhaps simpler, model to explain sustained, superior levels of OCBs – one that does not rely on individual characteristics such as motives, attributions, personality, or fairness perceptions. The mechanism, instead, uses (a) opportunities, or signals that an act of assistance can be performed, and (b) chance accumulation, or the notion of randomly assembling components to an existing stock as an employee moves through time. To say that an employee randomly accumulates opportunities is to mean that he or she is confronted with requests, notifications, or prompts that signal to him or her that an act of help can be performed, and each of these successive cases then compiles into his or her existing pool. We show that whenever help requests follow a random accumulation process, then superior, sustained citizenship behaviors by one employee compared to others is not only a possibility but is the most likely case – it is to be expected. Even when two people have the same level of trust toward others, empathy, or prosocial values, one will have continual, superior helping due to the underlying, random accumulation.  Moreover, this result occurs even when the mechanism is identical for every employee. In other words, we show that vastly different observed citizenship does not depend on a unique causal diagram for every employee. The fundamental process – accumulation – is the same, but the manifest complexity leading some individuals to have greater citizenship than others occurs due to the unique gradient one experiences across time. Such an alternative explanation does not necessarily challenge existing ideas, but it has the potential to change our understanding of what generates sustained, superior behavior.

Apart from this first contribution, an alternative, parsimonious explanation regarding sustained, superior citizenship, additional contributions of this paper are as follows. First, we provide information to managers that can help them avoid misattributing causes of citizenship. If a manager were to take our literature at face value, then she should assess individual characteristics to monitor, predict, and manage helping behaviors. But such actions do not account for differences in help requests and the extent to which these requests follow a random process. Therefore, she cannot rule out chance when she witnesses sustained, high levels of OCBs and will potentially misattribute its cause to personality or motives. Any performance or promotion recommendation that she then provides -- which are identified outcomes of OCBs -- are given for the wrong reason. The employee behavior was not due to disposition, but chance opportunities. 

Second, we answer recent calls for a better understanding of dynamics in the citizenship literature (dishop et al., cronin). Dishop et al., argue that, although it is now common for researchers to assess patterns in longitudinal data, many of the current approaches miss several fundamental concepts of dynamics -- the notion of accumulation being one. We examine this principle here by assessing the extent to which help requests follow a random walk and therefore add more knowledge about citizenship dynamics to our literature. 

Third, we extend the OCB literature by examining the nature of help requests. When researchers discuss employee citizenship in handbooks (cite), theory (cites), or in empirical articles that originally introduced the concept (cites), they focus almost exclusively on help itself -- types, measures, predictors, outcomes, and its similarity to other constructs. But many types of helping are, by definition, tied to a request or prompt. For instance, in their chapter distinguishing OCBs from engagement, Newton and LePine (2018) suggest that citizenship is a response to an opportunity -- an act that follows a prompt for extra work or a request for information. Similarly, in their chapter distinguishing OCBs from proactive behavior, Li, Frese, and Haider (2018) state that, whereas proactive behavior reflects an employee volunteering help without a prompt, OCBs are actions that occur after a plea for assistance. Not all OCBs are reactions to prompts (cites), but requests are part of the definition of at least one major type of citizenship -- a type which some authors (Li et al., 2018) have argued should take the forefront of OCB research. Currently, we have many studies on helping but little on the nature of prompts. Our understanding of citizenship, therefore, is incomplete in that we have focused exclusively on one aspect of the definition of citizenship (i.e., the act), and not the other (i.e., the prompt). 



Fourth, we challenge an assumption about what creates long-run, exceptional citizenship. To appreciate our stance, it is useful to describe a study by Bolino, Hsiung, Harvey, and LePine (2015). These authors examine within-person variance in OCBs, depletion, and motives, and correlate the constructs over time. They motivate their study by arguing that prior research has assumed that people have stable motives and so "good soldiers," or employees that demonstrate supreme OCB levels compared to their peers, will always be good. They argue that this idea is unfounded and then demonstrate that motives do show systematic within-person variance, and that they predict OCBs. What these authors imply is that long-run behavior is unlikely when there is systematic variance in the variables that are assumed to cause OCBs. Said differently, when the causes are unstable (motives), the outcome must be unstable (OCB). This idea, though, contradicts what we know about stochastic processes, particularly the notion that no systematic variance in the cause is required to produce what looks like long-run stability in the outcome (cite). If the cause has no systematic variance, it is still possible (and in some cases extremely likely) that the response process does contain systematic variance in the form of long streaks of exceptional citizenship. Our paper, therefore, repositions how we think about long-run citizenship behavior.


Finally, this research generates new avenues; it points to unexplored scientific and applied questions that could lead to a flurry of additional work. These questions are unpacked at the end of the paper. The goal of this paper is to describe an alternative, chance model of long-run citizenship that incorporates opportunities and accumulation. Below,...
